



Individual Submission                                      K. McGuinness
Internet-Draft                                               Independent
Intended status: Informational                             22 April 2026
Expires: 24 October 2026


       SAML 2.0 to OpenID Connect and OAuth 2.0 Migration Profile
          draft-mcguinness-saml-oidc-migration-profile-latest

Abstract

   This document defines a migration profile for deployments that
   transition existing SAML 2.0 single sign-on integrations to OpenID
   Connect and OAuth 2.0 while preserving an existing relying-party
   trust relationship.  The profile defines client metadata that binds
   an OAuth client to an existing SAML Service Provider entity
   identifier, authorization server metadata that binds an OAuth issuer
   to an existing SAML Identity Provider entity identifier, and rules
   for mapping SAML subject identifiers, authentication statements,
   authentication context, and selected SAML attributes to OpenID
   Connect claims.  The profile also defines use of OAuth 2.0 Token
   Exchange to obtain a refresh token, access token, or ID Token from a
   SAML assertion, and an introspection extension that validates a SAML
   assertion and returns normalized claims as JSON.

   The intent is to let relying parties adopt OAuth 2.0 and OpenID
   Connect without changing the underlying enterprise SSO trust model or
   requiring applications to relink existing user accounts.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 24 October 2026.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Terminology
     2.1.  Requirements Notation
     2.2.  Terminology
   3.  Applicability and Deployment Model
   4.  Client Registration
     4.1.  saml_sp_entity_id
   5.  Authorization Server Metadata
     5.1.  saml_idp_entity_id
     5.2.  saml_metadata_uri
     5.3.  token_exchange_requested_token_types_supported
     5.4.  introspection_token_types_supported
     5.5.  SAML Key Material
   6.  SAML Assertion Validation and Binding
   7.  Issuer Binding
   8.  Local Subject Resolution
   9.  Subject Identifier Mapping
   10. Claim Mapping
     10.1.  Authentication Event Claims
     10.2.  Attribute Claims
     10.3.  UserInfo Responses
   11. Token Exchange Using a SAML Assertion
     11.1.  Request
     11.2.  Authorization Server Processing
     11.3.  Access Token Behavior
     11.4.  Successful Response
     11.5.  Error Response
     11.6.  Use of a Bootstrap Refresh Token
   12. SAML Assertion Introspection
     12.1.  Request
     12.2.  Authorization Server Processing
     12.3.  Successful Response
     12.4.  Error Handling
   13. Security Considerations
   14. Privacy Considerations
   15. IANA Considerations
     15.1.  OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata
     15.2.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata
     15.3.  OAuth Token Type Hints
     15.4.  OAuth Token Introspection Response Registry
   16. References
     16.1.  Normative References
     16.2.  Informative References
   Appendix A.  Examples
     A.1.  Client Registration Example
     A.2.  Authorization Server Metadata Example
     A.3.  Bootstrap Refresh Token Exchange Example
     A.4.  Bootstrap ID Token Exchange Example
     A.5.  Bootstrap Access Token Exchange Example
     A.6.  SAML Assertion Introspection Example
     A.7.  Refresh Grant Example
     A.8.  UserInfo Example
     A.9.  Resulting ID Token Example
   Appendix B.  InCommon and eduPerson Deployment Guidance
   Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   Many enterprise and SaaS deployments already have a stable SAML 2.0
   trust relationship between an Identity Provider (IdP) and a Service
   Provider (SP).  When the same relying party later moves to OpenID
   Connect or OAuth 2.0, the deployment often has to create a new client
   registration, a new issuer relationship, and a new subject identifier
   model.  In practice, this can break subject continuity, claim release
   policy, assurance signaling, and operational trust.

   The Identity Assertion JWT Authorization Grant
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant] defines a SAML-
   specific interoperability path for obtaining OAuth artifacts from an
   existing SAML deployment.  This document extracts the migration-
   specific aspects of that approach and defines them as a reusable
   OAuth and OpenID Connect profile.

   This document does not define a new grant type, a new assertion
   format, or a replacement for SAML Web Browser SSO.  Instead, it
   defines a profile that:

   *  binds an OAuth client to an existing SAML SP Entity ID;

   *  binds an OAuth issuer to an existing SAML IdP Entity ID;

   *  defines how a SAML assertion can be exchanged for an OAuth 2.0 or
      OpenID Connect token;

   *  defines how a SAML assertion can be introspected when token
      issuance is not needed;

   *  preserves subject continuity and claim continuity across the
      migration.

2.  Conventions and Terminology

2.1.  Requirements Notation

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

2.2.  Terminology

   This document uses the terms "authorization server", "client",
   "client identifier", "issuer", and "scope" from OAuth 2.0, OAuth 2.0
   Authorization Server Metadata, Token Exchange, and OpenID Connect.
   It uses the terms "Identity Provider", "Service Provider",
   "entityID", "Assertion", "Attribute", "AttributeStatement",
   "AuthnStatement", and "AuthnContext" from SAML 2.0.

   For the purposes of this document:

   SAML IdP Entity ID:  The SAML entityID of the asserting party that
      issues SAML assertions for the deployment.

   SAML SP Entity ID:  The SAML entityID of the relying party deployment
      that receives SAML assertions.  In common SAML deployments, this
      is also the audience value used for that relying party.

   Migration Client:  An OAuth 2.0 or OpenID Connect client that has a
      saml_sp_entity_id registered and represents an existing SAML SP
      relationship.  This document uses "client" as a shorthand for
      Migration Client when the context is clear.

   Subject Continuity:  The property that the same end-user is
      represented to the migrated relying party by a stable identifier
      that does not require account relinking.

   Local Account:  The authorization server's internal account record
      for the end-user to which the SAML assertion is linked for token
      issuance and claim release.

   Stable Local Subject Key:  A non-reassignable local identifier for
      the resolved Local Account, used as input when this profile
      requires a derived subject value.

3.  Applicability and Deployment Model

   This profile assumes that an administrative authority operates, or
   tightly governs, both:

   *  a SAML 2.0 IdP identified by a SAML IdP Entity ID; and

   *  an OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server or OpenID Provider identified by
      an OAuth issuer.

   The profile establishes three bindings:

   *  issuer binding: the OAuth issuer is bound to the SAML IdP Entity
      ID;

   *  client binding: the OAuth client is bound to the SAML SP Entity
      ID;

   *  subject and claim binding: OpenID Connect subject and claim values
      are bound to the identifiers and statements that were already used
      for the SAML SP.

   When these bindings are present, the authorization server can
   preserve subject format, claim release policy, and assurance
   semantics from the prior SAML deployment instead of treating the
   migrated client as a wholly new relying party.

   This profile is intended for migrations in which the SAML IdP
   relationship and the OAuth authorization server relationship are
   known to correspond to the same relying-party deployment.  It is not
   intended to establish trust between otherwise unrelated SAML and
   OAuth parties.

   This profile also assumes that the authorization server has a
   deterministic way to resolve assertions from that SAML deployment to
   exactly one active Local Account before issuing OAuth tokens or
   returning an active introspection response, and that the asserted
   subject already corresponds to an existing Local Account under the
   authorization server's control.

   This profile is defined only for confidential clients.  Public
   clients are out of scope and MUST NOT use the Token Exchange or
   direct SAML assertion introspection patterns defined by this
   document.

4.  Client Registration

4.1.  saml_sp_entity_id

   This document defines the saml_sp_entity_id client metadata
   parameter.

   The saml_sp_entity_id value is a string that identifies the SAML 2.0
   SP Entity ID to which the OAuth client is bound.

   When saml_sp_entity_id is present:

   *  its value MUST exactly match the SAML SP Entity ID used in the
      existing SAML deployment;

   *  the authorization server MUST bind the client registration to that
      SAML SP relationship for purposes of subject continuity and claim
      release policy;

   *  the authorization server MAY allow multiple OAuth clients to share
      the same saml_sp_entity_id when local policy determines that those
      clients represent the same historical relying-party relationship;

   *  the authorization server MUST reject registration if the value is
      unknown, disallowed, or local policy does not authorize the client
      to use that binding; and

   *  the authorization server MUST ensure that the client authenticated
      at runtime is one of the clients authorized to use that
      saml_sp_entity_id.

   An authorization server MAY support saml_sp_entity_id for dynamic
   client registration, static client registration, or both.  For
   statically registered clients, the saml_sp_entity_id binding MAY be
   established through administrative configuration rather than a client
   registration request.

   Because this profile is defined only for confidential clients, an
   authorization server MUST NOT enable this profile for a public client
   registration.

   When multiple OAuth clients share the same saml_sp_entity_id, the
   authorization server MUST treat them as the same relying-party
   context for claim release and subject continuity under this profile.

   If multiple OAuth clients sharing the same saml_sp_entity_id present
   conflicting subject_type values, the authorization server MUST either
   apply a single effective subject type for that shared binding or
   reject the registration or request that would create inconsistent
   subject semantics.

   Clients that require continuity with SAML pairwise identifiers SHOULD
   register subject_type as pairwise.  When subject_type is pairwise and
   saml_sp_entity_id is present, the authorization server SHOULD use the
   saml_sp_entity_id as the relying-party input for pairwise subject
   continuity.

   When saml_sp_entity_id is present, a registered sector_identifier_uri
   (OIDC-REGISTRATION) MUST NOT alter pairwise subject calculation under
   this profile.  If a client registration includes both
   saml_sp_entity_id and sector_identifier_uri, the authorization server
   MUST either ensure that the sector_identifier_uri represents the same
   historical relying-party context as the bound saml_sp_entity_id or
   reject the registration or request as inconsistent.

5.  Authorization Server Metadata

5.1.  saml_idp_entity_id

   This document defines the saml_idp_entity_id authorization server
   metadata parameter.

   The saml_idp_entity_id value is a string that identifies the SAML 2.0
   IdP Entity ID bound to the OAuth issuer.

   When saml_idp_entity_id is present:

   *  it MUST equal the SAML IdP Entity ID used by the corresponding
      SAML IdP;

   *  it MUST identify the same authority that the OAuth issuer value
      represents;

   *  it MUST be the value against which incoming SAML assertion issuers
      are validated when this profile processes SAML assertions
      directly.

   The OpenID Connect iss claim and OAuth authorization server issuer
   metadata value remain OAuth issuer identifiers.  They are not
   required to equal the SAML IdP Entity ID, and they commonly will not,
   because OAuth issuer values are HTTPS URLs with OAuth-specific
   discovery semantics.

5.2.  saml_metadata_uri

   This document defines the saml_metadata_uri authorization server
   metadata parameter.

   The saml_metadata_uri value is an HTTPS URI that resolves to the SAML
   metadata document describing the SAML IdP Entity ID bound to the
   OAuth issuer.

   When saml_metadata_uri is present:

   *  the referenced SAML metadata MUST describe the same
      saml_idp_entity_id;

   *  the authorization server SHOULD make the metadata available in a
      form suitable for standard SAML metadata processing;

   *  clients and migration tooling MAY use the metadata to correlate
      the OAuth issuer with the pre-existing SAML trust configuration.

5.3.  token_exchange_requested_token_types_supported

   This document defines the
   token_exchange_requested_token_types_supported authorization server
   metadata parameter.

   The token_exchange_requested_token_types_supported value is a JSON
   array of strings containing the token type URIs that the
   authorization server accepts as requested_token_type values for SAML
   token exchange under this profile.

   If the authorization server publishes metadata and supports Token
   Exchange under this profile, it SHOULD include this metadata value.

   When token_exchange_requested_token_types_supported is present:

   *  each value MUST be one of urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-
      type:refresh_token, urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id_token, or
      urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:access_token;

   *  if urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id_token is included, the
      authorization server MUST be an OpenID Provider; and

   *  if urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:access_token is included, the
      authorization server MUST support the target-selection processing
      defined in Section 11.2 for access token requests.

   This profile intentionally limits requested_token_type to these three
   values.  Other token type URIs defined by RFC 8693, such as
   urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:jwt, are outside the scope of this
   profile.

5.4.  introspection_token_types_supported

   This document defines the introspection_token_types_supported
   authorization server metadata parameter.

   The introspection_token_types_supported value is a JSON array of
   strings.  Each string is a token type URI identifying a token format
   that the authorization server accepts for direct introspection at its
   introspection endpoint according to Section 12.

   If this metadata value is omitted, no support is implied for direct
   introspection of additional token types under this profile.

   When introspection_token_types_supported includes
   urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:saml2:

   *  the authorization server's introspection_endpoint metadata MUST be
      present;

   *  the introspection endpoint MUST accept the request pattern defined
      in Section 12;

   *  the authorization server SHOULD accept
      token_type_hint=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:saml2.

5.5.  SAML Key Material

   This document does not define an authorization server metadata
   parameter for SAML signing keys or encryption keys.  That omission is
   intentional.

   SAML keys are published and processed through SAML metadata and
   KeyDescriptor elements, while OAuth and OpenID Connect signing keys
   are published and processed through jwks_uri or jwks.  Even when the
   same underlying key material is reused, it MUST be published and
   validated using the metadata and encoding rules of each protocol
   separately.

6.  SAML Assertion Validation and Binding

   This section applies whenever the authorization server directly
   consumes a SAML assertion under this profile.

   This profile is limited to signed, unencrypted SAML 2.0 bearer
   assertions.  Encrypted assertions are out of scope.  SAML protocol
   messages and assertions that rely on subject confirmation methods
   other than bearer are also out of scope.

   This profile defines an assertion-centric input model.  The submitted
   assertion MUST be independently signed and valid without relying upon
   a containing SAML Response element for signature verification or
   protocol state.  Response-level features such as Status, Destination,
   Consent, and response-level signatures are not processed by this
   profile.  If a deployment extracts an assertion from a SAML Response
   before presenting it under this profile, the component performing
   that extraction MUST validate the response-level features before the
   assertion is submitted.

   This profile does not define processing of encrypted subject or
   attribute content inside an otherwise accepted assertion, including
   EncryptedID, NewEncryptedID, and EncryptedAttribute.  An
   authorization server consuming an assertion directly under this
   profile MUST reject any assertion containing such elements.

   The authorization server MUST:

   1.  validate the SAML assertion according to SAML 2.0 processing
       rules, including issuer, signature, time validity (enforcing both
       Conditions/@NotBefore and Conditions/@NotOnOrAfter), conditions,
       and subject confirmation;

   2.  validate the SAML assertion using SAML metadata and SAML key
       material, not JOSE metadata;

   3.  verify that the SAML assertion issuer matches the trusted SAML
       IdP Entity ID bound to the OAuth issuer as defined in Section 7;

   4.  verify that the SAML assertion contains at least one
       AudienceRestriction element;

   5.  verify that the bound saml_sp_entity_id appears as an Audience
       value in at least one AudienceRestriction element; additional
       Audience values beyond the bound saml_sp_entity_id are permitted
       and do not by themselves invalidate the assertion.  Local policy
       MAY reject assertions issued to multiple audiences when that
       conflicts with the deployment's SAML trust model; and

   6.  reject the assertion if client authentication, assertion
       audience, and the bound saml_sp_entity_id do not identify the
       same relying-party migration context.

   For Token Exchange, the authorization server MUST reject with
   invalid_request any encrypted assertion, SAML protocol message, or
   assertion using a subject confirmation method outside this profile.

   The authorization server MUST identify at least one usable
   SubjectConfirmation element with the bearer method URI
   (urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:cm:bearer).  If multiple bearer
   SubjectConfirmation elements are present, any one valid bearer
   confirmation is sufficient.  For a usable bearer
   SubjectConfirmationData:

   *  NotOnOrAfter, if present, MUST be in the future at the time of
      processing;

   *  Recipient, if present, MUST match a recipient URI or ACS endpoint
      associated by local configuration or SAML metadata with the bound
      saml_sp_entity_id;

   *  InResponseTo, if present, MUST either have been validated by the
      component that handled the front-channel SAML exchange or be
      validated by equivalent state known to the authorization server;

   *  if InResponseTo is absent, the assertion MAY still be accepted
      under this profile.  Deployments that require SP-initiated request
      correlation for the bound SAML relationship MUST reject such
      assertions;

   *  Address, if present, MUST either have been validated by the
      component that handled the front-channel SAML exchange or be
      validated by deployment- specific means available to the
      authorization server; and

   *  values that cannot be validated under the preceding rules MUST
      cause the assertion to be rejected as unusable under this profile.

   The authorization server MUST enforce any applicable SAML one-time-
   use, replay-prevention, and assertion freshness requirements
   associated with the trusted SAML deployment.  At minimum, it MUST
   detect reuse of the same trusted assertion identifier from the same
   issuer until the assertion's validity window or local freshness
   window has expired.  Once an assertion has produced a successful
   Token Exchange response or an active introspection response under
   this profile, the authorization server MUST reject reuse of that
   assertion under this profile as replay.  The authorization server
   SHOULD also enforce any applicable SAML proxying restrictions.

   If the SAML assertion's Conditions element includes a OneTimeUse
   condition, the authorization server MUST treat the assertion as
   exhausted immediately after its first successful use under this
   profile and MUST reject any subsequent submission of the same
   assertion, even within its validity window.

   Assertions are exhausted across both the Token Exchange and
   introspection patterns.  An assertion that has produced a successful
   Token Exchange response or an active introspection response MUST be
   rejected for any subsequent operation under this profile, regardless
   of which pattern was used first.

   Client authentication does not replace SAML assertion validation.  A
   valid client cannot cause an invalid or misbound SAML assertion to
   become acceptable under this profile.

   This profile uses the SAML SP Entity ID as the primary migration key
   because SAML pairwise subject identifiers, attribute release policy,
   and audience restrictions are already typically bound to that value.

7.  Issuer Binding

   This section elaborates the issuer validation requirement of
   Section 6, rule 3.  The SAML assertion issuer and the OAuth issuer
   identify related but distinct protocol issuers.

   The authorization server MUST validate the SAML assertion Issuer
   against the saml_idp_entity_id value bound to the OAuth issuer.  The
   iss claim in an ID Token issued under this profile MUST be the OAuth
   issuer, not the SAML assertion issuer.

   The SAML assertion issuer MUST NOT be copied into the ID Token iss
   claim or used as a substitute for OAuth issuer metadata.

8.  Local Subject Resolution

   Before deriving sub or other end-user claims under this profile, the
   authorization server MUST resolve the SAML assertion to exactly one
   active Local Account.

   This document does not require or define just-in-time provisioning.
   If a deployment performs provisioning or account activation based on
   a validated SAML assertion, that behavior is outside this profile and
   MUST complete before the authorization server applies the subject
   continuity and claim mapping rules defined here.

   The authorization server MUST perform this resolution using stable
   SAML subject identifiers, existing persisted linkages, or equivalent
   administrative mapping for the trusted SAML deployment.  Releasable
   attributes such as email address, display name, telephone number, or
   generic usernames MUST NOT by themselves be treated as sufficient
   evidence to create or select a Local Account under this profile,
   although they MAY be used as supplemental hints together with a
   stable binding already established by policy.

   If the assertion contains a NameID whose format is
   urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:1.1:nameid-format:emailAddress, or whose
   semantics are those of an email address under local policy, the
   authorization server MUST treat that NameID as a mutable account
   attribute for purposes of this profile.  Such a NameID MUST NOT by
   itself establish a new Local Account linkage or a new subject
   continuity mapping.  It MAY be used to locate an existing Local
   Account only when local policy has already bound that asserted email
   identifier for the trusted SAML issuer to exactly one Local Account.

   If resolution yields no Local Account, more than one candidate Local
   Account, or a Local Account that is disabled, suspended,
   deprovisioned, or otherwise not eligible to authenticate, the
   authorization server MUST fail the profile operation and MUST NOT
   issue tokens or return an active introspection response.

   Once a continuity mapping has been established for a resolved Local
   Account, the authorization server MUST continue to resolve the same
   subject input to that same Local Account unless an authorized
   administrative remapping occurs.

   When this document requires a Stable Local Subject Key, the value
   MUST be taken from the resolved Local Account and MUST be non-
   reassignable within the authorization server.

9.  Subject Identifier Mapping

   The OpenID Connect sub claim is the primary continuity point for
   migrated relying parties.  The authorization server MUST issue a sub
   value that is stable for the client and that preserves the semantics
   of the corresponding SAML deployment.

   The following NameID formats are recognized for subject mapping
   purposes under this profile:

   *  urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:nameid-format:persistent: A
      persistent, SP-specific or globally non-reassignable identifier.
      MAY be used as input to the subject mapping rules in this section.

   *  urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:nameid-format:transient: A session-
      scoped, non-persistent identifier.  MUST NOT be used as input to
      subject mapping under this profile and MUST NOT be used as the
      OpenID Connect sub.

   *  urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:1.1:nameid-format:emailAddress: A mutable
      account attribute.  Treated as defined in Section 8.  MUST NOT be
      used as sub.

   *  urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:1.1:nameid-format:unspecified: Deployment-
      defined semantics.  MUST NOT be used as a subject mapping input
      unless local policy has explicitly established the identifier as
      stable and non-reassignable for the trusted SAML issuer.

   *  urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:nameid-format:entity: Identifies a
      system entity, not an end-user.  MUST NOT be used as a subject
      mapping input.

   Any other NameID format MUST NOT be used as a subject mapping input
   under this profile unless local policy explicitly establishes its
   semantics as persistent and non-reassignable.

   The authorization server MUST determine whether the migrated client
   is using a public subject or a pairwise subject.  The registered
   subject_type, if any, SHOULD be used for this determination.

   If the authorization server cannot determine an effective subject
   type for the client or shared saml_sp_entity_id binding, it MUST fail
   the profile operation rather than select a subject type
   heuristically.

   When the authorization server uses, or would otherwise use, the
   urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:attribute:subject-id or
   urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:attribute:pairwise-id attribute as a subject
   mapping input, it MUST validate that attribute according to the SAML
   V2.0 Subject Identifier Attributes Profile.  In particular, the
   attribute MUST use NameFormat urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-
   format:uri and contain exactly one non-empty AttributeValue that
   conforms to that profile's syntax and semantics.  If no persisted
   mapping exists and the attribute corresponding to the client's
   effective subject type is present but fails these requirements, the
   authorization server MUST reject the profile operation rather than
   derive a different sub from fallback rules.

   When multiple clients share the same saml_sp_entity_id, the
   authorization server MUST apply the same effective subject mapping
   rules to all such clients.  In particular, it MUST produce the same
   sub value for the same resolved Local Account when those clients are
   operating under the same subject type semantics.

   For clients using pairwise subject identifiers:

   The authorization server MUST determine sub using the first
   applicable rule:

   1.  If the authorization server already has a persisted pairwise
       mapping for the same resolved Local Account and the same
       saml_sp_entity_id, it MUST reuse that mapping.  An established
       persisted mapping takes precedence over any subject identifier
       present in the current assertion, ensuring that sub remains
       stable even if the IdP-asserted identifier changes.

   2.  If no persisted mapping exists and the SAML assertion contains
       the urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:attribute:pairwise-id attribute with
       NameFormat urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:uri, the
       authorization server MUST use that attribute value as sub and
       MUST persist the resulting mapping.

   3.  If no persisted mapping exists and the assertion contains a
       persistent NameID (urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:nameid-
       format:persistent) whose semantics are SP-specific, stable, and
       non-reassignable for that same SAML SP relationship, the
       authorization server MAY use that value as sub, and it MUST
       persist the resulting mapping.

   4.  Otherwise, the authorization server MUST derive a deterministic,
       non-reassignable pairwise identifier by combining the Stable
       Local Subject Key and the bound saml_sp_entity_id using a
       collision-resistant method.  The pairwise subject computation
       defined in Section 8 of OpenID Connect Core is a suitable
       derivation method.  The authorization server MUST persist the
       resulting mapping.

   The pairwise-id attribute value has the format localpart@scope as
   defined by the SAML V2.0 Subject Identifier Attributes Profile.  When
   a pairwise-id value is used as sub, the resulting value carries this
   scoped format.  Clients MUST NOT treat a sub value derived from
   pairwise-id as an email address or interpret the scope portion as an
   email domain.

   For clients using public subject identifiers:

   The authorization server MUST determine sub using the first
   applicable rule:

   1.  If the authorization server already has a persisted public
       subject mapping for the same resolved Local Account under the
       same OAuth issuer, it MUST reuse that mapping.  An established
       persisted mapping takes precedence over any subject identifier
       present in the current assertion, ensuring that sub remains
       stable even if the IdP-asserted identifier changes.

   2.  If no persisted mapping exists and the SAML assertion contains
       the urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:attribute:subject-id attribute with
       NameFormat urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:uri, the
       authorization server MUST use that attribute value as sub and
       MUST persist the resulting mapping.

   3.  If no persisted mapping exists and the assertion contains a
       persistent NameID (urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:nameid-
       format:persistent) whose semantics are stable, non-reassignable,
       and not SP-specific, the authorization server MAY use that value
       as sub, and it MUST persist the resulting mapping.

   4.  Otherwise, the authorization server MUST derive a deterministic,
       non-reassignable public identifier from the Stable Local Subject
       Key alone, without client-specific input, using a collision-
       resistant method.  The authorization server MUST persist the
       resulting mapping.

   For all subject types:

   *  if both subject-id and pairwise-id are available, the
      authorization server MUST select the one whose semantics match the
      client's effective subject type;

   *  the authorization server MUST NOT expose a pairwise-id value to a
      client other than a client bound to the corresponding
      saml_sp_entity_id;

   *  the authorization server MUST NOT use a transient identifier as
      the OpenID Connect sub;

   *  the authorization server MUST NOT directly use mutable identifiers
      such as an email address, a NameID in the SAML emailAddress
      format, or a non-persistent NameID format as the OpenID Connect
      sub.

   When the only usable SAML subject input is a NameID whose semantics
   are those of an email address, and Local Subject Resolution succeeds
   under the rules above, the authorization server MUST derive sub from
   the resolved Stable Local Subject Key using the applicable fallback
   rule in this section rather than using the asserted email value
   itself.

   When a persistent NameID is used as an input to subject mapping, the
   authorization server MUST evaluate the identifier together with its
   qualifier context.  In particular:

   *  SPNameQualifier, if present for pairwise processing, MUST
      correspond to the bound saml_sp_entity_id or to an equivalent
      configured identifier for that same relying-party relationship;

   *  NameQualifier, if present, MUST correspond to the trusted SAML IdP
      identity or to an equivalent configured identifier for that same
      issuer;

   *  SPProvidedID, if present, MUST be treated as part of the source
      identifier context rather than ignored; and

   *  two NameID values that differ in value or qualifier context MUST
      be treated as distinct unless local policy can prove them
      equivalent.

10.  Claim Mapping

   The mappings in this section apply to ID Tokens and, when applicable,
   UserInfo responses.  Values derived from SAML subject identifiers or
   authentication statements take precedence over generic attribute
   mapping.

10.1.  Authentication Event Claims

   When a SAML assertion contains an AuthnStatement, the authorization
   server SHOULD map its contents as follows:

   *  AuthnStatement/@AuthnInstant maps to the OpenID Connect auth_time
      claim.  The value MUST be converted to a NumericDate.

   *  AuthnContext/AuthnContextClassRef maps to the OpenID Connect acr
      claim.  The value SHOULD be copied without transformation.
      Clients operating under this migration profile MUST be prepared to
      receive SAML authentication context class URIs as acr values (for
      example,
      urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:ac:classes:PasswordProtectedTransport).
      These are not registered OpenID Connect ACR values.  If local
      policy maps SAML context class references to a registered Level of
      Assurance scheme, that mapping takes precedence over direct
      passthrough.

   *  AuthnStatement/@SessionIndex MAY be used as authoritative input to
      the OpenID Connect sid claim, as defined by OIDC-FC-LOGOUT and
      OIDC-BC-LOGOUT, when the deployment supports session continuity or
      logout semantics.

      When sid is emitted, it MUST identify the OpenID Provider session
      corresponding to the SAML-authenticated session and MUST be unique
      within the OAuth issuer.  The authorization server MUST NOT assume
      that the raw SAML SessionIndex is already a valid sid; it MUST
      either reuse the raw value only when local policy guarantees it is
      issuer-scoped and collision-resistant for this purpose, or derive
      and persist an OpenID Provider-scoped sid bound to that SAML-
      authenticated session.  If SessionIndex is absent from the
      selected AuthnStatement, sid MUST NOT be emitted unless the
      authorization server has another authoritative session identifier
      for that SAML-authenticated session.

   *  AuthnStatement/@SessionNotOnOrAfter, if present, defines an upper
      bound on the migrated session represented by that AuthnStatement.

   The OpenID Connect amr claim identifies authentication methods, not
   an authentication context class.  Therefore:

   *  the authorization server MUST NOT copy the SAML
      AuthnContextClassRef directly into amr;

   *  the authorization server MAY populate amr only when it can derive
      concrete authentication methods from local policy or explicit SAML
      authentication evidence; and

   *  when amr is populated, the authorization server SHOULD use values
      from the Authentication Method Reference Values registry, and it
      MUST represent amr as a JSON array of strings.

   If multiple AuthnStatement elements are present, the authorization
   server MUST select the statement corresponding to the authentication
   event that is authoritative for the OAuth or OpenID Connect
   transaction.  When no other basis for selection exists, the
   authorization server SHOULD prefer the statement with the most recent
   AuthnInstant value.  If the authorization server cannot determine the
   authoritative statement unambiguously, it SHOULD omit ambiguous
   derived claims rather than misstate them.

   If the selected AuthnStatement contains SessionNotOnOrAfter, the
   authorization server MUST treat that instant as an upper bound on
   operations that preserve the SAML-authenticated session under this
   profile.  In particular:

   *  the authorization server MUST NOT issue a refresh token whose
      validity extends beyond SessionNotOnOrAfter;

   *  if it issues an access token or ID Token directly from the
      assertion and that token is intended to represent the same
      authenticated session, the token expiration time MUST NOT extend
      beyond SessionNotOnOrAfter; and

   *  once SessionNotOnOrAfter has passed, the authorization server MUST
      reject further session-preserving use of the assertion or derived
      refresh token.

   If the authorization server receives an authoritative signal that the
   underlying SAML-authenticated session ended earlier than
   SessionNotOnOrAfter, it MUST treat that earlier event as the
   operative end of the migrated session for purposes of this profile.

   The following SAML data has no direct standard OpenID Connect claim
   mapping:

   *  AuthnContextDecl

   *  AuthnContextDeclRef

   *  AuthnContext/AuthenticatingAuthority

   *  SubjectLocality

   If the AuthnContext contains an AuthnContextDeclRef element but no
   AuthnContextClassRef, the authorization server MUST NOT emit an acr
   claim unless local policy defines a deterministic mapping from that
   declaration reference to a specific ACR value.  If no such mapping
   exists, acr MUST be omitted.

   Such values MAY be conveyed in private claims by prior agreement
   between the authorization server and client.  Deployments using such
   claims SHOULD use collision-resistant claim names.

10.2.  Attribute Claims

   A NameID in emailAddress format is not by itself an attribute mapping
   input.  However, if the assertion contains a NameID whose format is
   urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:1.1:nameid-format:emailAddress, or whose
   semantics are those of an email address under local policy, the
   authorization server MAY use that value as the OpenID Connect email
   claim when:

   *  claim release policy for the relying-party relationship permits
      release of email;

   *  the value is bound by local policy to the resolved Local Account;
      and

   *  no higher-precedence SAML attribute mapping produces a conflicting
      email claim value.

   If the emailAddress NameID conflicts with an email value derived from
   a SAML attribute and no deterministic local precedence rule exists,
   the authorization server SHOULD omit the email claim rather than
   guess.  An An emailAddress NameID MUST NOT by itself cause the
   authorization server to emit email_verified=true.

   When a SAML attribute directly corresponds to a registered OpenID
   Connect claim, the authorization server SHOULD emit that claim.
   Common mappings include:

   *  givenName or given_name to given_name

   *  sn, surname, or family_name to family_name

   *  displayName or name to name

   *  mail or email to email

   *  uid or preferred_username to preferred_username

   *  telephoneNumber or phone_number to phone_number

   When the SAML deployment uses attribute Name values based on object
   identifiers or URIs, the authorization server MAY apply a deployment-
   specific mapping table that resolves those names to the equivalent
   OpenID Connect claim names.

   Appendix B provides non-normative deployment guidance for common
   InCommon and eduPerson attribute mappings.

   All AttributeStatement elements in the assertion MUST be processed as
   a single logical attribute set.  Attributes having the same Name and
   the same NameFormat are part of the same logical attribute and their
   values MUST be combined in document order.  Attributes that differ by
   Name or NameFormat MUST be treated as distinct inputs even if their
   FriendlyName values are the same.

   An omitted NameFormat MUST be treated as
   urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:unspecified for purposes
   of attribute grouping and mapping under this profile.

   Mapping decisions MUST be based primarily on the SAML attribute Name
   and NameFormat.  FriendlyName MAY be used only as a secondary hint
   when no deterministic Name-based mapping exists.  If Name,
   NameFormat, and FriendlyName would imply conflicting claim mappings,
   the authorization server MUST use the Name and NameFormat
   interpretation.

   The registered OpenID Connect claims listed above are single-valued
   string claims if present.  The auth_time claim is a single numeric
   value.  The amr claim is an array of strings.

   Attribute processing MUST follow these rules:

   *  a single SAML AttributeValue maps to a single JSON value;

   *  multiple SAML AttributeValue elements MAY map to a JSON array only
      for claims whose syntax permits arrays or for private claims
      defined by prior agreement;

   *  boolean-valued SAML attributes SHOULD map to JSON booleans when
      the XML type is unambiguous;

   *  if multiple source values are available for a registered single-
      valued claim, the authorization server MUST either apply a
      deterministic, claim-specific precedence rule or omit that claim;

   *  if multiple distinct SAML attributes could map to the same
      registered claim, the authorization server MUST apply a
      deterministic precedence rule based on SAML attribute identifiers
      or omit that claim;

   *  the authorization server MUST NOT emit a JSON array for a
      registered single-valued claim;

   *  the authorization server MUST NOT infer email_verified from the
      mere presence of an email attribute;

   *  the authorization server MUST NOT infer phone_number_verified from
      the mere presence of a phone_number attribute; and

   *  generic attribute mapping MUST NOT overwrite sub, auth_time, acr,
      amr, or sid values that were derived by the rules in this
      document.

   Attributes that do not correspond to standard OpenID Connect claims
   MAY be returned as private claims when both parties have a prior
   agreement on syntax and semantics.

10.3.  UserInfo Responses

   If an access token issued under this profile is presented to the
   OpenID Provider's UserInfo endpoint, the OpenID Provider MUST process
   that request in accordance with OpenID Connect Core and the
   additional rules in this section.

   The UserInfo response:

   *  MUST include the sub claim;

   *  MUST use a sub value consistent with Section 9;

   *  MUST apply the claim mapping rules in Sections 10.1 and 10.2 to
      any returned claims; and

   *  MUST NOT include claims that would not be releasable to the same
      relying party under this profile.

   The OpenID Provider MUST determine which claims to return based on
   the granted scope, any other OpenID Connect claim-selection mechanism
   it supports, and the claim release policy applicable to the relying-
   party relationship represented by the bound saml_sp_entity_id.

   If an ID Token and a UserInfo response are both issued under the same
   migrated authorization context, the sub value in the UserInfo
   response MUST exactly match the sub value in the corresponding ID
   Token.  If the UserInfo response includes auth_time, acr, amr, or
   sid, those values MUST be derived according to Section 10.1 and MUST
   match any corresponding claims issued in an ID Token for that same
   migrated authorization context.

   This profile does not require the UserInfo response to repeat every
   claim available in an ID Token, nor does it require claims omitted
   from the ID Token to be present in UserInfo.  However, any claim
   returned from UserInfo under this profile MUST reflect the same Local
   Account resolution, subject continuity, and claim release policy used
   for the access token.

   The claim release policy applicable at the time of access token
   issuance governs which claims may be returned.  If the applicable
   policy changes after the access token is issued, the authorization
   server SHOULD apply the policy in effect at issuance time for the
   duration of that token's validity.

11.  Token Exchange Using a SAML Assertion

   This section defines how a client can use OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange to
   obtain OAuth 2.0 or OpenID Connect tokens from a SAML 2.0 assertion
   associated with an existing SAML SP relationship.

   An authorization server supporting this pattern MUST support Token
   Exchange as defined by RFC 8693.  If the authorization server
   publishes metadata, its grant_types_supported metadata SHOULD include
   urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange.

   An authorization server that supports
   requested_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id_token under
   this profile MUST also be an OpenID Provider and MUST comply with
   OpenID Connect Core for the ID Tokens that it issues.

   Under this pattern, the migration client authenticates the user
   through the existing SAML 2.0 deployment, receives a SAML assertion
   for the SAML SP identified by saml_sp_entity_id, and presents that
   assertion to the authorization server token endpoint using Token
   Exchange.  The issued token is determined by the requested_token_type
   parameter and authorization server policy.  This profile defines
   issuance of refresh tokens, access tokens, and ID Tokens.

11.1.  Request

   The client makes a Token Exchange request to the token endpoint using
   the following parameters:

   grant_type:

   REQUIRED.  The value urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange.

   subject_token:

   REQUIRED.  The base64url-encoded octet sequence of the XML
   serialization of a signed SAML 2.0 <Assertion> element obtained for
   the existing SAML SP relationship.  The subject_token input to this
   profile MUST be a SAML assertion, not a SAML protocol response.

   subject_token_type:

   REQUIRED.  The value urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:saml2.

   requested_token_type:

   REQUIRED.  One of the following values:

   *  urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:refresh_token to request a
      refresh token;

   *  urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id_token to request an ID Token;

   *  urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:access_token to request an access
      token.

   scope:

   OPTIONAL.  The requested OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect scope values
   for the migrated client.  This profile permits ordinary OAuth scope
   values in addition to OpenID Connect scopes.  When present, the
   following token-type-specific constraints apply:

   *  When requested_token_type is urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-
      type:id_token, the request MUST include openid.

   *  When requested_token_type is urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-
      type:refresh_token, the request MUST include offline_access.

   *  A request for urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:access_token MAY
      omit openid entirely and contain only OAuth scope values.

   This profile does not define a token-endpoint parameter for fine-
   grained claim selection.  Claims included in a directly issued ID
   Token, and claims later made available through UserInfo, are
   determined by the granted scope, the rules in Section 10, and the
   claim release policy for the relying-party relationship represented
   by the bound saml_sp_entity_id.

   resource:

   OPTIONAL.  For access token requests, one or more resource indicators
   as defined by RFC 8707.  Clients requesting an access token under
   this profile SHOULD send a single resource value when a resource URI
   is known.

   audience:

   OPTIONAL.  For access token requests, one or more logical target
   service identifiers as defined by RFC 8693.

   When requested_token_type is urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-
   type:access_token, the client MAY send resource, audience, or both.
   If the requested scope includes openid, the OpenID Provider's
   UserInfo endpoint is an implicit requested target service under this
   profile.  If resource and audience are both omitted and the requested
   scope includes openid, the effective target service set defaults to
   the UserInfo endpoint.  If resource and/or audience are present
   together with openid, the effective target service set consists of
   the UserInfo endpoint plus the explicitly requested targets.  If
   openid is absent and both resource and audience are omitted, the
   authorization server MAY use a preconfigured default target service
   set for the authenticated client and the bound saml_sp_entity_id, or
   it MAY reject the request with invalid_target.  When both resource
   and audience are present, they MUST identify a consistent target
   service set as understood by the authorization server.

   When requested_token_type is urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-
   type:refresh_token or urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id_token, this
   profile does not define target-selection semantics for resource or
   audience.  Clients requesting those token types SHOULD NOT send them,
   and authorization servers SHOULD ignore them if present.

   This profile does not define the use of actor_token,
   actor_token_type, or authorization_details in the bootstrap exchange.
   Deployments MAY support them by separate agreement, but they are
   outside this profile.

   Only confidential clients can use this profile.  Client
   authentication at the token endpoint uses the client's registered
   OAuth 2.0 client authentication method.  The authenticated client
   MUST be a confidential client authorized for the saml_sp_entity_id
   that matches the SAML assertion audience.

11.2.  Authorization Server Processing

   Upon receiving the request, the authorization server MUST:

   1.  authenticate the client in accordance with its registered client
       authentication method;

   2.  validate the SAML assertion as described in Section 6;

   3.  verify that the authenticated client is authorized for the
       saml_sp_entity_id that matches the SAML assertion audience;

   4.  verify that the requested token type is defined by this profile
       and is permitted for the authenticated client;

   5.  resolve the SAML assertion to exactly one active Local Account as
       described in Section 8;

   6.  resolve the requested target service set for access token
       requests using the resource and audience parameters, or the
       implicit UserInfo target when openid is requested;

   7.  evaluate the requested scope according to the policy that applies
       to the same relying-party relationship represented by the
       existing SAML SP and the resolved target service set, if any;

   8.  derive the end-user subject according to Section 9 and any claims
       needed for the issued token according to Section 10; and

   9.  issue the requested token type, bound to the authenticated client
       and the end-user where applicable, if the request is approved.

   The authorization server MUST reject the request if the SAML
   assertion was issued for a different SAML SP than the one bound to
   the authenticated client.

   The authorization server MUST reject the request if subject
   resolution yields no Local Account, more than one candidate Local
   Account, or a Local Account that is disabled, suspended,
   deprovisioned, or otherwise not permitted to authenticate.

   The authorization server MUST reject the request if
   requested_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:refresh_token
   and the requested scope does not include offline_access.

   The authorization server MUST reject the request if
   requested_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id_token and
   the requested scope does not include openid.

   When requested_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-
   type:access_token and the requested scope includes openid, the
   authorization server MUST be an OpenID Provider and MUST publish a
   userinfo_endpoint in accordance with OpenID Connect Discovery.

   When requested_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-
   type:access_token, the authorization server MUST determine a target
   service set from the request or from preconfigured policy.  If the
   requested scope includes openid, the resolved target service set MUST
   include the UserInfo endpoint.  If the authorization server cannot
   determine an acceptable target service set, or if the request asks
   for multiple target services that policy does not allow to share a
   single token, it MUST reject the request with invalid_target.

   A valid SAML assertion does not by itself authorize arbitrary OAuth
   scopes.  For any request that includes scope, the authorization
   server MUST evaluate the requested scopes against explicit
   authorization policy for the authenticated client, the bound
   saml_sp_entity_id, and the resolved target service set, if any.  The
   authorization server MUST NOT grant a scope solely because the SAML
   assertion is valid.  If no applicable grant policy exists for a
   requested scope, the authorization server MUST reject the request
   with invalid_scope.

   For ordinary OAuth scopes, the applicable authorization policy MUST
   be explicit and pre-established for the authenticated client, the
   bound saml_sp_entity_id, and the resolved target service set.  Such
   policy MAY result from static configuration, administrative consent,
   or a previously recorded authorization grant at the same
   authorization server, but it MUST NOT be inferred solely from the
   SAML assertion contents or from mapped identity claims.

   When issuing a refresh token, the authorization server MUST ensure
   that the issued refresh token preserves the subject continuity
   established by the SAML assertion.  In particular, later use of the
   refresh token for the same client MUST result in the same sub value
   that would have been derived directly from the SAML assertion under
   Sections 8 through 10.

   When issuing an ID Token directly from Token Exchange, that ID Token:

   *  MUST use the iss value of the authorization server;

   *  MUST contain an aud claim whose value is exactly the authenticated
      client's client identifier.  Any audience parameter present in the
      Token Exchange request MUST be ignored for purposes of ID Token
      audience construction;

   *  MUST use the sub value defined by Section 9;

   *  MUST apply the claim mapping rules in Section 10;

   *  MUST preserve the original authentication time from the SAML
      AuthnStatement, if known, in the auth_time claim;

   *  MUST set iat to the time the Token Exchange response is issued,
      not to the SAML AuthnInstant;

   *  MUST set exp to a time appropriate for a directly issued ID Token
      under local policy.  When the ID Token represents the same SAML-
      authenticated session and SessionNotOnOrAfter is present, exp MUST
      NOT be later than SessionNotOnOrAfter.  This cap is a session
      bound, not a direct translation of the SAML assertion lifetime.
      exp MUST NOT be taken directly from the SAML assertion's
      Conditions/@NotOnOrAfter;

   *  MUST NOT include nonce, at_hash, or c_hash; and

   *  SHOULD NOT include azp.  If azp is included, it MUST equal the
      authenticated client identifier.

11.3.  Access Token Behavior

   This document does not define the syntax of an access token issued by
   this exchange.  However, when issuing an access token, the
   authorization server:

   *  MUST bind the token to the authenticated client, the granted
      scope, and the resolved target service set;

   *  MUST bind any end-user authorization carried by the token to the
      resolved Local Account and to a subject representation consistent
      with Section 9;

   *  MUST audience-restrict the token to the resolved target service
      set; and

   *  MAY represent that audience restriction in the token value itself,
      associated token metadata, or related introspection data according
      to the authorization server's access token profile.

   If the granted scope includes openid, the authorization server MUST
   issue an access token that is valid at the OpenID Provider's UserInfo
   endpoint.  Under this profile, a granted openid scope makes the
   UserInfo endpoint part of the token's resolved target service set.
   If the authorization server cannot issue one access token that is
   valid both for the UserInfo endpoint and for any other resolved
   target services, it MUST reject the request with invalid_target
   rather than issue an access token that silently omits UserInfo
   access.

   If an access token issued under this profile is presented to the
   UserInfo endpoint, the UserInfo response MUST conform to
   Section 10.3.  If the access token was issued without openid, the
   OpenID Provider MUST reject its use at the UserInfo endpoint
   according to OpenID Connect Core.

   Any representation of the end-user subject produced from an access
   token issued under this profile by the same authorization server for
   the same client MUST be consistent with Section 9.

   This document does not define additional introspection semantics for
   access tokens issued under this profile.  If the authorization server
   supports access token introspection, that behavior remains governed
   by RFC 7662, the authorization server's access token profile, and
   local policy.

11.4.  Successful Response

   On success, the authorization server returns a Token Exchange
   response as defined by RFC 8693 with:

   *  issued_token_type set to the issued token type and equal to one of
      urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:refresh_token,
      urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id_token, or
      urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:access_token;

   *  access_token containing the issued token; and

   *  token_type set to N_A when the issued token type is
      urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:refresh_token or
      urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id_token, and otherwise set to
      the applicable access token type such as Bearer.

   The response MAY include scope and expires_in as defined by RFC 8693.

   Because RFC 8693 uses the access_token response member to carry the
   issued security token, a client receiving this response MUST
   interpret the access_token value according to issued_token_type.  In
   particular:

   *  when issued_token_type is urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-
      type:refresh_token, the access_token value is the issued refresh
      token;

   *  when issued_token_type is urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-
      type:id_token, the access_token value is the issued ID Token; and

   *  when issued_token_type is urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-
      type:access_token, the access_token value is the issued access
      token.

11.5.  Error Response

   If the request is malformed, the authorization server MUST return an
   error response as defined by RFC 6749 and RFC 8693.

   The authorization server MUST use invalid_request for malformed or
   internally inconsistent Token Exchange parameters, including SAML
   assertions that are invalid, expired, audience-mismatched, encrypted,
   or otherwise unusable under this profile.

   The authorization server SHOULD use:

   *  unauthorized_client when the authenticated client is not permitted
      to use the bound saml_sp_entity_id relationship or the requested
      token type;

   *  invalid_target when the resource and audience parameters are
      missing, malformed, inconsistent, unknown, or unacceptable for the
      requested access token; and

   *  invalid_scope when the requested scope cannot be granted.

   The authorization server SHOULD also use invalid_request when the
   assertion cannot be resolved to exactly one active Local Account or
   when the assertion has already been consumed successfully under this
   profile.

11.6.  Use of a Bootstrap Refresh Token

   If the bootstrap exchange issues a refresh token, the client can use
   the standard OAuth 2.0 refresh_token grant at the same authorization
   server.

   When the granted scope includes openid, the authorization server MUST
   return an ID Token in the first successful refresh token response for
   that bootstrap refresh token.  This requirement is more specific than
   OpenID Connect Core, which permits but does not mandate ID Tokens in
   refresh responses.  The requirement here ensures the client receives
   the migrated subject and authentication claims in a signed,
   verifiable format in the first response after the bootstrap,
   providing continuity with the original SAML-authenticated session.
   Any returned ID Token:

   *  MUST use the iss value of the authorization server;

   *  MUST use the sub value defined by Section 9;

   *  MUST apply the claim mapping rules in Section 10; and

   *  MUST preserve the original authentication time from the SAML
      AuthnStatement, if known, in the auth_time claim.

   Subsequent refresh token responses are governed by OpenID Connect
   Core.  If an ID Token is returned in a later refresh response, it
   MUST continue to preserve the same sub and authentication continuity
   unless a later authentication event changes those values under OpenID
   Connect rules.

   The refresh token issued by this bootstrap pattern MAY also be used
   as an input to other specifications that accept
   urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:refresh_token as a Token Exchange
   subject_token_type, but those subsequent exchanges are defined by the
   respective specifications, not by this document.

   Subsequent refresh token requests for access tokens MAY use resource
   and audience according to RFC 8707, RFC 8693, and authorization
   server policy.  This profile does not modify their meaning in refresh
   token requests.  Scope reduction in subsequent refresh token requests
   is governed by RFC 6749 and is not modified by this profile.

   When a bootstrap refresh token expires or is revoked, the client MUST
   obtain a new SAML assertion through the SAML 2.0 deployment and
   perform a new Token Exchange.  The resulting token will reflect the
   same subject continuity under the same saml_sp_entity_id binding,
   provided the Local Account has not changed.

   If the authorization server learns that the resolved Local Account
   has been disabled, that the authoritative SAML-authenticated session
   has terminated, or that administrative policy has revoked the
   migrated session, it MUST reject further use of any derived refresh
   token for session-preserving operations.  It SHOULD also revoke or
   expire related access tokens and other session-bound artifacts
   according to local capabilities.  This document does not define a
   logout or revocation signaling protocol between the SAML IdP and the
   authorization server.

12.  SAML Assertion Introspection

   This section defines an introspection extension for cases in which
   the caller does not need OAuth tokens and only needs a SAML assertion
   to be validated and translated into normalized JSON claims.

   This pattern uses the authorization server's introspection endpoint
   as defined by RFC 7662.  Under this pattern, a migration client
   authenticates the user through the existing SAML 2.0 deployment,
   receives a SAML assertion for the SAML SP identified by
   saml_sp_entity_id, and submits that assertion to the introspection
   endpoint.  If the assertion is valid for the caller and the caller is
   authorized to receive the mapped subject and claims, the
   authorization server returns an active introspection response
   containing a JSON claims object.  No OAuth access token, refresh
   token, or ID Token is issued.

12.1.  Request

   The caller makes an introspection request to the introspection
   endpoint using the following parameters:

   token:

   REQUIRED.  The base64url-encoded octet sequence of the XML
   serialization of a signed SAML 2.0 <Assertion> element obtained for
   the existing SAML SP relationship.  The token input to this profile
   MUST be a SAML assertion, not a SAML protocol response.

   token_type_hint:

   OPTIONAL.  If sent, the value SHOULD be urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-
   type:saml2.

   This profile does not define a request parameter for selecting a
   subset of normalized claims in the introspection response.

   Only confidential clients can use this profile.  Client
   authentication for the introspection endpoint is performed according
   to RFC 7662 and authorization server policy.  The authenticated
   caller MUST be a confidential client authorized for the
   saml_sp_entity_id that matches the SAML assertion audience.

12.2.  Authorization Server Processing

   Upon receiving the request, the authorization server MUST:

   1.  authenticate or authorize the caller for use of the introspection
       endpoint;

   2.  validate the SAML assertion as described in Section 6;

   3.  verify that the authenticated caller is authorized for the
       saml_sp_entity_id that matches the SAML assertion audience;

   4.  resolve the SAML assertion to exactly one active Local Account as
       described in Section 8;

   5.  derive the end-user subject according to Section 9 and any claims
       needed for the response according to Section 10; and

   6.  apply the claim release policy for that same relying-party
       relationship before returning any claims.

   If the SAML assertion is invalid, expired, audience-mismatched,
   otherwise not usable for the caller, cannot be resolved to exactly
   one active Local Account, or the caller is not authorized to
   introspect it, the authorization server MUST return a successful
   introspection response with "active": false and SHOULD NOT include
   additional members.

12.3.  Successful Response

   For an active SAML assertion, the authorization server returns an
   introspection response as defined by RFC 7662 with:

   *  active set to true;

   *  client_id set to the authenticated caller's OAuth client
      identifier; and

   *  claims set to a JSON object containing the normalized claims
      derived from the SAML assertion for this caller.

   The claims member is intentionally nested rather than returned at the
   top level of the introspection response.  This separates the token-
   validity metadata (active) from end-user identity claims derived from
   the SAML assertion, and avoids ambiguity with existing or future top-
   level RFC 7662 response members.

   The claims object:

   *  MUST include the mapped sub value defined by Section 9;

   *  MAY include auth_time, acr, amr, sid, and attribute-derived claims
      defined by Section 10; and

   *  MUST NOT include claims that would not be releasable to the same
      relying party under this profile.

   The authorization server SHOULD return only the minimum normalized
   claims necessary for the authorized caller and applicable relying-
   party policy.

   This profile does not require the introspection response to include
   OAuth token metadata fields such as scope, token_type, exp, or iss,
   because no OAuth token is being issued by the introspection
   operation.

12.4.  Error Handling

   If the introspection request itself is malformed or caller
   authentication fails, the authorization server MAY return an error
   response in accordance with RFC 7662.  A syntactically valid request
   containing a SAML assertion that is not usable for the caller MUST
   result in an introspection response with "active": false.

13.  Security Considerations

   XML Signature Wrapping (XSW) attacks allow an adversary to manipulate
   a SAML document by inserting a malicious element while retaining a
   valid signature on a benign element elsewhere in the document
   structure.  Implementations MUST validate SAML assertion signatures
   in a manner resistant to XSW attacks.  Specifically, implementations
   MUST verify that the element referenced by the signature's
   Reference/@URI is the same element being processed as the assertion,
   and MUST reject any document structure where this cannot be confirmed
   unambiguously.  Implementations SHOULD use established SAML
   processing libraries that have been tested against known XSW attack
   patterns.

   Implementations MUST NOT accept SAML assertions signed using
   deprecated cryptographic algorithms.  RSA with SHA-1
   (http://www.w3.org/2000/09/xmldsig#rsa-sha1) and DSA with SHA-1
   (http://www.w3.org/2000/09/xmldsig#dsa-sha1) MUST be rejected.
   Authorization servers SHOULD require RSA with SHA-256 or stronger and
   SHOULD document their minimum acceptable algorithm requirements.

   Mixing SAML trust inputs and OAuth trust inputs creates a risk of
   protocol confusion.  Implementations MUST validate SAML assertions
   using SAML metadata and MUST validate ID Tokens and other JOSE
   objects using OAuth or OpenID Connect key discovery.  Implementations
   MUST NOT assume that a key published in one metadata format is
   automatically valid in the other.

   Authorization servers MUST apply transport security to the token
   endpoint, introspection endpoint, metadata retrieval, and any other
   endpoint used by this profile in the same manner as the underlying
   OAuth, OpenID Connect, and SAML specifications that they extend.

   SAML assertions used with Token Exchange or introspection are bearer
   artifacts.  Authorization servers MUST detect and prevent replay of
   the same assertion according to the security properties of the
   underlying SAML deployment and the single-use rule in Section 6.
   Client authentication alone is not sufficient protection against
   replay of a stolen assertion.  Authorization servers deployed across
   multiple nodes MUST ensure that assertion identifier state used for
   replay detection is shared across all nodes or that equivalent
   distributed coordination is in place; per-node replay stores are
   insufficient.

   The bindings defined by saml_sp_entity_id and saml_idp_entity_id are
   security-critical.  If a client can register an arbitrary
   saml_sp_entity_id, it may be able to inherit claim release policy or
   pairwise identifiers intended for another relying party.
   Authorization servers therefore MUST protect registration and
   administrative mapping of these values.

   When multiple OAuth clients share the same saml_sp_entity_id, the
   authorization server is intentionally treating them as the same
   relying-party context.  Such sharing MUST therefore be an explicit
   IdP or authorization server policy decision.  Accidental sharing can
   expose the same pairwise sub values and claims to clients that should
   have been isolated from one another.

   Incorrect amr translation can overstate the assurance of an
   authentication.  Implementations SHOULD pass through the SAML
   AuthnContextClassRef as the acr value rather than attempting to
   derive amr from it, and SHOULD emit amr values only when the actual
   authentication methods are known.

   Implementations MUST NOT use mutable identifiers, transient
   identifiers, or reassignable NameID formats as OpenID Connect sub
   values.  Doing so would break the sub stability requirements and can
   cause account takeover or misbinding after identifier reuse.

   The introspection alternative defined in Section 12 can expose
   normalized claims without minting OAuth tokens.  Authorization
   servers therefore MUST strongly authenticate callers to the
   introspection endpoint and MUST return "active": false when the
   caller is not entitled to introspect the presented SAML assertion.

   When issuing an ID Token directly from Token Exchange, the
   authorization server MUST ensure that the resulting token meets the
   same signing, audience, issuer, and claim integrity requirements that
   would apply if the token had been issued through an ordinary OpenID
   Connect flow.

14.  Privacy Considerations

   This profile exists in part to preserve privacy properties during
   migration.  Deployments that previously relied on SAML pairwise
   subject identifiers SHOULD continue to use pairwise identifiers after
   migration rather than silently switching to public identifiers.

   The saml_sp_entity_id parameter is important for privacy because it
   provides a stable relying-party key for pairwise continuity.  If a
   deployment instead derives pairwise subjects from unrelated OAuth
   client metadata, the migrated application can observe a different
   subject than it observed as a SAML SP, forcing account relinking or
   introducing correlation errors.

   When multiple OAuth clients share the same saml_sp_entity_id, they
   will observe the same relying-party-specific subject continuity and
   claim release under this profile.  Deployments SHOULD do this only
   when those clients are intended to represent the same historical
   relying-party context.

   Authorization servers SHOULD release no more claims to the migrated
   client than would have been available to the same relying party in
   the SAML deployment, unless separate policy authorizes broader
   disclosure.

   Private claim mappings can introduce new correlation vectors across
   migrated clients.  Deployments SHOULD therefore minimize use of
   private claims and SHOULD avoid emitting values whose semantics were
   not already established for the same relying-party relationship.

   When the introspection pattern defined in Section 12 is used, the
   authorization server SHOULD return only the minimum claims necessary
   for the authorized caller, because introspection can reveal identity
   data without the normal indirection of token issuance.

15.  IANA Considerations

15.1.  OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata

   This document requests registration of the following value in the
   OAuth Dynamic Client Registration Metadata registry established by
   RFC 7591:

   *  Client Metadata Name: saml_sp_entity_id

   *  Client Metadata Description: Identifier of the SAML 2.0 Service
      Provider entity bound to the client for migration and subject
      continuity

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document, Section 4.1

15.2.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata

   This document requests registration of the following values in the
   OAuth Authorization Server Metadata registry established by RFC 8414:

   *  Metadata Name: saml_idp_entity_id

   *  Metadata Description: Identifier of the SAML 2.0 Identity Provider
      entity bound to the authorization server issuer

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document, Section 5.1

   *  Metadata Name: saml_metadata_uri

   *  Metadata Description: HTTPS URI for the SAML metadata describing
      the SAML Identity Provider entity bound to the authorization
      server issuer

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document, Section 5.2

   *  Metadata Name: token_exchange_requested_token_types_supported

   *  Metadata Description: JSON array of token type URIs accepted as
      requested_token_type values for SAML token exchange under this
      profile

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document, Section 5.3

   *  Metadata Name: introspection_token_types_supported

   *  Metadata Description: JSON array of token type URIs identifying
      token types accepted for direct introspection at the authorization
      server's introspection endpoint according to this profile

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document, Section 5.4

15.3.  OAuth Token Type Hints

   This document requests registration of the following value in the
   OAuth Token Type Hints registry established by RFC 7009.  The token
   type URI below is defined by RFC 8693 as a token type identifier;
   this registration makes it available as a token_type_hint value at
   introspection and revocation endpoints, which use a separate
   registry.

   *  Hint Value: urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:saml2

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document, Section 12.1

15.4.  OAuth Token Introspection Response Registry

   This document requests registration of the following value in the
   OAuth Token Introspection Response registry established by RFC 7662:

   *  Response Name: claims

   *  Response Description: JSON object containing normalized subject
      and claim values derived from the introspected SAML assertion for
      the authorized caller

   *  Change Controller: IESG

   *  Specification Document(s): This document, Section 12.3

16.  References

16.1.  Normative References

   [OIDC-BC-LOGOUT]
              Jones, M. B. and J. Bradley, "OpenID Connect Back-Channel
              Logout 1.0", <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-
              backchannel-1_0.html>.

   [OIDC-CORE]
              Sakimura, N., Bradley, J., Jones, M. B., de Medeiros, B.,
              and C. Mortimore, "OpenID Connect Core 1.0 incorporating
              errata set 2", <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-
              core-1_0-18.html>.

   [OIDC-DISCOVERY]
              Sakimura, N., Bradley, J., Jones, M. B., and E. Jay,
              "OpenID Connect Discovery 1.0 incorporating errata set 2",
              <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-
              1_0.html>.

   [OIDC-FC-LOGOUT]
              Jones, M. B., "OpenID Connect Front-Channel Logout 1.0",
              <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-frontchannel-
              1_0.html>.

   [OIDC-REGISTRATION]
              Sakimura, N., Bradley, J., and M. B. Jones, "OpenID
              Connect Dynamic Client Registration 1.0 incorporating
              errata set 2", <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-
              registration-1_0.html>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC6749]  Hardt, D., Ed., "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework",
              RFC 6749, DOI 10.17487/RFC6749, October 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749>.

   [RFC7009]  Lodderstedt, T., Ed., Dronia, S., and M. Scurtescu, "OAuth
              2.0 Token Revocation", RFC 7009, DOI 10.17487/RFC7009,
              August 2013, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7009>.

   [RFC7591]  Richer, J., Ed., Jones, M., Bradley, J., Machulak, M., and
              P. Hunt, "OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol",
              RFC 7591, DOI 10.17487/RFC7591, July 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7591>.

   [RFC7662]  Richer, J., Ed., "OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection",
              RFC 7662, DOI 10.17487/RFC7662, October 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7662>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8176]  Jones, M., Hunt, P., and A. Nadalin, "Authentication
              Method Reference Values", RFC 8176, DOI 10.17487/RFC8176,
              June 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8176>.

   [RFC8414]  Jones, M., Sakimura, N., and J. Bradley, "OAuth 2.0
              Authorization Server Metadata", RFC 8414,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8414, June 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8414>.

   [RFC8693]  Jones, M., Nadalin, A., Campbell, B., Ed., Bradley, J.,
              and C. Mortimore, "OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange", RFC 8693,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8693, January 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8693>.

   [RFC8707]  Campbell, B., Bradley, J., and H. Tschofenig, "Resource
              Indicators for OAuth 2.0", RFC 8707, DOI 10.17487/RFC8707,
              February 2020, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8707>.

   [SAML2-CORE]
              OASIS, "Assertions and Protocols for the OASIS Security
              Assertion Markup Language (SAML) V2.0", 2005,
              <https://docs.oasis-open.org/security/saml/v2.0/saml-core-
              2.0-os.pdf>.

   [SAML2-METADATA]
              OASIS, "Metadata for the OASIS Security Assertion Markup
              Language (SAML) V2.0", 2005, <https://docs.oasis-
              open.org/security/saml/v2.0/saml-metadata-2.0-os.pdf>.

   [SAML2-SUBJ-ID]
              OASIS, "SAML V2.0 Subject Identifier Attributes Profile
              Version 1.0", 2019, <https://docs.oasis-open.org/security/
              saml-subject-id-attr/v1.0/saml-subject-id-attr-v1.0.html>.

16.2.  Informative References

   [EDUPERSON]
              REFEDS, "eduPerson Object Class Specification",
              <https://refeds.org/specifications/eduperson>.

   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-grant]
              Parecki, A., McGuinness, K., and B. Campbell, "Identity
              Assertion JWT Authorization Grant", Work in Progress,
              Internet-Draft, draft-ietf-oauth-identity-assertion-authz-
              grant-03, 22 April 2026,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-
              identity-assertion-authz-grant-03>.

   [INCOMMON-ATTRS]
              InCommon, "InCommon Federation Attributes",
              <https://incommon.org/federation/attributes/>.

   [INCOMMON-OID]
              InCommon, "InCommon Object Identifiers",
              <https://incommon.org/community/mace-registries/incommon-
              object-identifiers/>.

   [REFEDS-RS]
              REFEDS, "REFEDS Research and Scholarship Entity Category",
              <https://refeds.org/category/research-and-scholarship>.

   [SAML2-IOP]
              OASIS, "SAML V2.0 Metadata Interoperability Profile
              Version 1.0", 2009, <https://docs.oasis-
              open.org/security/saml/Post2.0/sstc-metadata-iop.html>.

Appendix A.  Examples

   This appendix is non-normative.

   Unless otherwise noted, these examples use HTTP Basic client
   authentication for brevity.

A.1.  Client Registration Example

   {
     "client_name": "Calendar Example",
     "redirect_uris": [
       "https://calendar.example.com/callback"
     ],
     "token_endpoint_auth_method": "client_secret_basic",
     "subject_type": "pairwise",
     "saml_sp_entity_id": "https://calendar.example.com/saml/sp"
   }

A.2.  Authorization Server Metadata Example

   {
     "issuer": "https://login.example.com",
     "authorization_endpoint": "https://login.example.com/authorize",
     "token_endpoint": "https://login.example.com/token",
     "userinfo_endpoint": "https://login.example.com/userinfo",
     "jwks_uri": "https://login.example.com/jwks.json",
     "introspection_endpoint": "https://login.example.com/introspect",
     "registration_endpoint": "https://login.example.com/register",
     "grant_types_supported": [
       "authorization_code",
       "refresh_token",
       "urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange"
     ],
     "saml_idp_entity_id": "https://login.example.com/idp",
     "saml_metadata_uri": "https://login.example.com/idp/metadata",
     "token_exchange_requested_token_types_supported": [
       "urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:refresh_token",
       "urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id_token",
       "urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:access_token"
     ],
     "introspection_token_types_supported": [
       "urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:saml2"
     ]
   }

A.3.  Bootstrap Refresh Token Exchange Example

   POST /token HTTP/1.1
   Host: login.example.com
   Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
   Authorization: Basic czZCaGRSa3F0MzpnWDFmQmF0M2JW

   grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange
   &requested_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:refresh_token
   &scope=openid+offline_access+profile+email
   &subject_token=PHNhbWwyOkFzc2VydGlvbiB4bWxuczpzYW1sMj0iLi4uIj4uLi48L3NhbWwyOkFzc2VydGlvbj4
   &subject_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:saml2

   {
     "issued_token_type": "urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:refresh_token",
     "access_token": "vF9dft4qmTcXkZ26zL8b6u",
     "token_type": "N_A",
     "scope": "openid offline_access profile email",
     "expires_in": 1209600
   }

A.4.  Bootstrap ID Token Exchange Example

   POST /token HTTP/1.1
   Host: login.example.com
   Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
   Authorization: Basic czZCaGRSa3F0MzpnWDFmQmF0M2JW

   grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange
   &requested_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id_token
   &scope=openid+profile+email
   &subject_token=PHNhbWwyOkFzc2VydGlvbiB4bWxuczpzYW1sMj0iLi4uIj4uLi48L3NhbWwyOkFzc2VydGlvbj4
   &subject_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:saml2

   {
     "issued_token_type": "urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:id_token",
     "access_token": "eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6IjIyIn0...",
     "token_type": "N_A",
     "scope": "openid profile email",
     "expires_in": 3600
   }

A.5.  Bootstrap Access Token Exchange Example

   POST /token HTTP/1.1
   Host: login.example.com
   Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
   Authorization: Basic czZCaGRSa3F0MzpnWDFmQmF0M2JW

   grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:token-exchange
   &requested_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:access_token
   &scope=payments.read+payments.write
   &resource=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.example.com%2Fpayments
   &audience=payments-api
   &subject_token=PHNhbWwyOkFzc2VydGlvbiB4bWxuczpzYW1sMj0iLi4uIj4uLi48L3NhbWwyOkFzc2VydGlvbj4
   &subject_token_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:saml2

   {
     "issued_token_type": "urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:access_token",
     "access_token": "mF_9.B5f-4.1JqM",
     "token_type": "Bearer",
     "scope": "payments.read payments.write",
     "expires_in": 3600
   }

A.6.  SAML Assertion Introspection Example

   POST /introspect HTTP/1.1
   Host: login.example.com
   Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
   Authorization: Basic czZCaGRSa3F0MzpnWDFmQmF0M2JW

   token=PHNhbWwyOkFzc2VydGlvbiB4bWxuczpzYW1sMj0iLi4uIj4uLi48L3NhbWwyOkFzc2VydGlvbj4
   &token_type_hint=urn:ietf:params:oauth:token-type:saml2

   {
     "active": true,
     "client_id": "s6BhdRkqt3",
     "claims": {
       "sub": "p7b4cf5d-9c2f-4f22-a6b9-6e3d8df5a1b0",
       "auth_time": 1776794400,
       "acr": "urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:ac:classes:PasswordProtectedTransport",
       "sid": "abc123",
       "email": "alice@example.com",
       "given_name": "Alice",
       "family_name": "Ng"
     }
   }

A.7.  Refresh Grant Example

   POST /token HTTP/1.1
   Host: login.example.com
   Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
   Authorization: Basic czZCaGRSa3F0MzpnWDFmQmF0M2JW

   grant_type=refresh_token
   &refresh_token=vF9dft4qmTcXkZ26zL8b6u
   &scope=openid+profile+email

   {
     "access_token": "SlAV32hkKG",
     "token_type": "Bearer",
     "expires_in": 3600,
     "scope": "openid profile email",
     "id_token": "eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6IjIyIn0..."
   }

A.8.  UserInfo Example

   GET /userinfo HTTP/1.1
   Host: login.example.com
   Authorization: Bearer SlAV32hkKG

   {
     "sub": "p7b4cf5d-9c2f-4f22-a6b9-6e3d8df5a1b0",
     "email": "alice@example.com",
     "given_name": "Alice",
     "family_name": "Ng"
   }

A.9.  Resulting ID Token Example

   Given a Token Exchange request with scope=openid profile email and a
   SAML assertion for the bound SP containing:

   *  pairwise-id of p7b4cf5d-9c2f-4f22-a6b9-6e3d8df5a1b0

   *  mail of alice@example.com

   *  givenName of Alice

   *  sn of Ng

   *  AuthnInstant of 2026-04-21T18:00:00Z

   *  AuthnContextClassRef of
      urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:ac:classes:PasswordProtectedTransport

   *  SessionIndex of abc123

   the resulting ID Token claims might be:

   {
     "iss": "https://login.example.com",
     "sub": "p7b4cf5d-9c2f-4f22-a6b9-6e3d8df5a1b0",
     "aud": "s6BhdRkqt3",
     "exp": 1776805200,
     "iat": 1776804900,
     "auth_time": 1776794400,
     "acr": "urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:ac:classes:PasswordProtectedTransport",
     "sid": "abc123",
     "email": "alice@example.com",
     "given_name": "Alice",
     "family_name": "Ng"
   }

Appendix B.  InCommon and eduPerson Deployment Guidance

   This appendix is non-normative.

   Many InCommon deployments use eduPerson attributes, including the
   REFEDS Research and Scholarship attribute bundle.  The core rules in
   Section 10 still govern claim typing, precedence, and subject
   handling.  Within that framework, deployments commonly use the
   following mappings and constraints:

   *  mail to email

   *  displayName to name

   *  givenName to given_name

   *  sn or surname to family_name

   *  eduPersonNickname to nickname, when locally useful

   *  telephoneNumber to phone_number, when locally useful

   *  eduPersonPrincipalName to preferred_username only when local
      policy permits release as a user-facing identifier; it should not
      determine sub

   *  eduPersonScopedAffiliation in a collision-resistant private claim
      that preserves its multi-valued syntax

   *  eduPersonAffiliation and eduPersonPrimaryAffiliation in collision-
      resistant private claims rather than overloaded standard claims

   *  eduPersonEntitlement in a collision-resistant private claim; it
      should not be translated directly into OAuth scope

   *  eduPersonAssurance in a collision-resistant private claim or as
      input to local assurance policy; it should not be copied directly
      into amr and should not overwrite acr unless local policy
      explicitly defines that translation

   *  eduPersonUniqueId as a stable account-linking or subject-
      continuity input, and only secondarily as a private claim when
      needed

   *  eduPersonTargetedID as a legacy pairwise subject continuity input,
      not as a general-purpose user-facing claim

   *  eduPersonOrcid in a collision-resistant private claim

   *  eduPersonPrincipalNamePrior only by explicit policy for relying
      parties that require historical identifier information

   For InCommon-style bundles used only to preserve legacy application
   behavior, the authorization server SHOULD prefer standard OpenID
   Connect claims when there is a good semantic match and SHOULD retain
   the original attribute semantics in private claims rather than
   mapping them to unrelated standard claims such as groups, roles, or
   scope.

Acknowledgments

   This draft was informed by the SAML interoperability work in the
   OAuth working group identity assertion draft and by the deployed
   semantics of the OASIS SAML subject identifier profile.

Author's Address

   Karl McGuinness
   Independent
   Email: public@karlmcguinness.com
